Finding the right tool for the job can often be perplexing and challenging. Especially in a crowded marketplace, where there are dozens of seemingly viable options.

When it comes to task management in OS X and iOS, there are a myriad of viable and vibrant options. The two that often come to the surface in many online nerd-fests are [OmniFocus](https://www.omnigroup.com/applications/omnifocus/) and [Things](http://culturedcode.com/). It seems that Mac nerds love to endlessly debate this particular topic. Now I will follow suit, hoping to provide something useful to the discussion.

I first purchased Things from the Mac App Store in July of 2012.  Even after hearing many wax long and eloquent about the benefits of OmniFocus, I settled on the clean UI and feel of Things. After over a year of intermittently using Things and toying with  solutions like [Clear](http://realmacsoftware.com/clear), [Basecamp](http://basecamp.com), and other methods of task management, a friend finally showed me the "magic" of OmniFocus. I bought in to the tune of $100 for the pair of OS X and iPhone applications.

What made OmniFocus click for me was the revelation of the [Getting Things Done ("GTD")](http://www.davidco.com/) methodology from David Allen. The system of organizing tasks into Contexts and Perspectives particularly was enlightening to me.

After more than a month of using OmniFocus I found myself lost and overwhelmed. My brain, task list, and OmniFocus Inbox began to seem overwhelming to me. And then a light bulb went off. It wasn't OmniFocus that I needed. It was the GTD tools that I was learning and needing to hone more. Simply stated, OmniFocus was too much for me. I was spending all my time trying to get my lists and ideas organized and none of my time actually getting things done.

So after asking forgiveness (not really) I came crawling back to Things. And it welcomed me with open arms. After more inspection the application really is a great tool to implement in a streamlined way the core principles of GTD. Daily Reviews are easy with their specialized UI treatment on OS X and iOS. Someday tasks make doing periodical reviews easy. Dragging email from Sparrow auto-fills email reference URLs into the Quick Entry palette allowing me to get to Inbox Zero.

Essentially what was missing in my workflow was not the right tool, it was harnessing the right approach to get the most out of the tool that I already had, that, in the end, proved to be the best one fit for the job.

It also helps that Cultured Code offered this [wonderful teaser](http://culturedcode.com/things/blog/2013/12/a-million-things.html) for Version 3 of their application which is currently in Alpha. Things are looking bright (no pun intended, but it works!) for Cultured Code and the loyal customers of Things.

In passing, what I'm learning from this is that we should always be thinking beyond our tools to how we actually set out to accomplish the task(s) or work in front of us. Our assessment should not be to find the best gadget or gizmo, but to try to work the best way that we can to accomplish the what is before us. In doing that, we may actually have the right tool for the task. Our fiddling and sense of frustration may not be because of the tool in our hand, but because of the way we approach work. Sometimes, we need to step back, assess the situation and really look at how we are approaching our work. We may or may not have the right tool. But hopefully, by digging deeper, we can produce work that has greater meaning, passion, and purpose, and we can really become more effective at doing what we do best.