I was working on a recent project where I need a simple, straightforward way to minify some CSS files so I could concatenate them together. For those familiar (as I am) with [Grunt](gruntjs.com) or [Gulp](gulpjs.com), this sounds like a tale of yesteryear. While I fully appreciate and advocate those tools and other GUI ways to build websites ([Mixture](mixture.io), [Hammer](hammerformac.com), [Cactus](cactusformac.com), and [CodeKit](http://incident57.com/codekit/) to name a few), for this task I really need a simple, solid tool to do work on a small batch of files.

Enter [Chen Luo's](http://chenluois.com/) [Smaller.app](http://smallerapp.com/) for Mac. While it does much more than minify CSS, that's really all I needed for my task. After downloading the app I selected my CSS files from Finder and after reviewing the files Smaller was ready to roll. I clicked the "Minify" button in the lower right of the application window and my files were minified effortlessly and flawlessly. By default new files were created a with a *.min.css suffix, identifying clearly which files had been crunched.

Chen has a knack for creating well-crafted, simple Mac applications that do what they do really well. I am fan and supporter of [Mou.app](http://mouapp.com/) for this very reason. It handles Markdown + Preview like a pro.

Smaller may not be the tool for a person doing a complicated web build or compiling of pre-processed CSS. But I really do appreciate well-designed tools, that are solid and get the job done. Like any builder knows, haveing a tool you can trust and rely upon is worth its wait in gold.